AMULET OF HEALTH
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
Your Constitution score is 19 while you wear this
amulet. It has no effect on you if your Constitution is
already 19 or higher.
AMULET OF PROOF AGAINST DETECTION
AND LOCATION
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
While wearing this amulet, you are hidden from
divination magic. You can't be targeted by such magic or
perceived through magical scrying sensors.
AMULET OF THE PLANES
Wondrous item, very rare (requires attunement)
While wearing this amulet, you can use an action to
name a location that you are familiar with on another
plane of existence. Then make a DC 15 Intelligence
check. On a successful check, you cast the plane shift
spell. On a failure, you and each creature and object
within 15 feet of you travel to a random destination.
Roll a dlOO. On a 1- 60, you travel to a random location
on the plane you named. On a 61- 100, you travel to a
randomly determined plane of existence.
ANIMATED SHIELD
Armor (shield), very rare (requires atttinement)
While holding this shield, you can speak its command
word as a bonus action to cause it to animate. The shield
leaps into the air and hovers in your space to protect
you as if you were wielding it, leaving your hands free.
The shield remains animated for 1 minute, until you
use a bonus action to end this effect, or until you are
incapacitated or die, at which point the shield falls to the
ground or into your hand if you have one free.
APPARATUS OF KWALISH
Wondrous item, legendary
This item first appears to be a Large sealed iron barrel
weighing 500 pounds. The barrel has a hidden catch,
which can be found with a successful DC 20 Intelligence
(Investigation) check. Releasing the catch unlocks a
hatch at one end of the barrel, allowing two Medium or
smaller creatures to crawl inside. Ten levers are set in
a row at the far end, each in a neutral position, able to
move either up or down. When certain levers are used,
the apparatus transforms to resemble a giant lobster.
The apparatus of Kwalish is a Large object with the
following statistics:
ARMOR, +1 , +2 , OR +3
ARMOR O F
INVULNERAB ILI TY
Armor (light, medium, or heavy), rare (+1), very rare (+2),
or legendary(+ 3)
You have a bonus to AC while wearing this armor. The
bonus is determined by its rarity.
ARMOR OF INVULNERABILITY
Armor (plate), legendary (requires attunement)
You have resistance to nonmagical damage while you
wear this armor. Additionally, you can use an action to
make yourself immune to nonmagical damage for 10
minutes or until you are no longer wearing the armor.
Once this special action is used, it can't be used again
until the next dawn.
ARMOR OF RESISTANCE
Armor (light, medium, or heavy), rare (requires
attunement)
You have resistance to one type of damage while
you wear this armor. The DM chooses the type or
determines it randomly from the options below.
ARMOR OF VULNERABILITY
Armor (plate), rare (requires attunement)
While wearing this armor, you have resistance to one
of the following damage types: bludgeoning, piercing,
or slashing. The DM chooses the type or determines
it randomly.
Curse. This armor is cursed, a fact that is revealed
only when an identify spell is cast on the armor or you
attune to it. Attuning to the armor curses you until you
are targeted by the remove curse spell or similar magic:
removing the armor fails to end the curse. While cursed
you have vulnerability to two of the three damage type
associated with the armor (not the one to which it grants
resistance).
ARROW-CATCHING SHIELD
Armor (shield), rare (requires attunement)
You gain a +2 bonus to AC against ranged attacks while
you wield this shield. This bonus is in addition to the
shield's normal bonus to AC. In addition, whenever an
attacker makes a ranged attack against a target within
5 feet of you, you can use your reaction to become the
target of the attack instead.
ARROW OF SLAYING
Weapon (arrow), very rare
An arrow of slaying is a magic weapon meant to slay
a particular kind of creature. Some are more focused
than others; for example, there are both arrows of
dragon slaying and arrows of blue dragon slaying. If a
creature belonging to the type, race, or group associated
with an arrow of slaying takes damage from the arrow,
the creature must make a DC 17 Constitution saving
throw, taking an extra 6d10 piercing damage on a failed
save, or half as much extra damage on a successful one.
Once an arrow of slaying deals its extra damage to a
creature, it becomes a nonmagical arrow.
Other types of magic ammunition of this kind exist,
such as bolts of slaying meant for a crossbow, though
arrows are most common.
BAG OF BEANS
Wondrous item, rare
Inside this heavy cloth bag are 3d4 dry beans. The
bag weighs 1/2 pound plus 1/4 pound for each bean
it contains.
If you dump the bag's contents out on the ground, they
explode in a 10-foot radius, extending from the beans.
Each creature in the area, including you, must make a
DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 5d4 fire damage
on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful
one. The fire ignites flammable objects in the area that
aren't being worn or carried.
If you remove a bean from the bag, plant it in dirt or
sand, and then water it, the bean produces an effect
1 minute later from the ground where it was planted.
The DM can choose an effect from the following table,
determine it randomly, or create an effect.
BAG OF DEVOURING
Wondrous item, very rare
This bag superficially resembles a bag of holding but is a
feeding orifice for a gigantic extradimensional creature.
Turning the bag inside out closes the orifice.
The extradimensional creature attached to the bag
can sense whatever is placed inside the bag. Animal or
vegetable matter placed wholly in the bag is devoured
and lost forever. When part of a living creature is placed
in the bag, as happens when someone reaches inside it,
there is a 50 percent chance that the creature is pulled
inside the bag. A creature inside the bag can use its
action to try to escape with a successful DC 15 Strength
check. Another creature can use its action to reach into
the bag to pull a creature out, doing so with a successful
DC 20 Strength check (provided it isn't pulled inside the
bag first). Any creature that starts its turn inside the bag
is devoured, its body destroyed.
Inanimate objects can be stored in the bag, which
can hold a cubic foot of such material. However, once
each day, the bag swallows any objects inside it and
spits them out into another plane of existence. The DM
determines the time and plane.
If the bag is pierced or torn, it is destroyed, and
anything contained within it is transported to a random
location on the Astral Plane.
BAG OF HOLDING
Wondrous item, uncommon
This bag has an interior space considerably larger
than its outside dimensions, roughly 2 feet in diameter
at the mouth and 4 feet deep. The bag can hold up to
500 pounds, not exceeding a volume of 64 cubic feet.
The bag weighs 15 pounds, regardless of its contents.
Retrieving an item from the bag requires an action.
If the bag is overloaded, pierced, or torn, it ruptures
and is destroyed, and its contents are scattered in the
Astral Plane. If the bag is turned inside out, its contents
spill forth, unharmed, but the bag must be put right
before it can be used again. Breathing creatures inside
the bag can survive up to a number of minutes equal
to 10 divided by the number of creatures (minimum 1
minute), after which time they begin to suffocate.
Placing a bag of holding inside an extradimensional
space created by a Heward's handy haversack, portable
hole, or similar item instantly destroys both items and
opens a gate to the Astral Plane. The gate originates
where the one item was placed inside the other. Any
creature within 10 feet of the gate is sucked through it
to a random location on the Astral Plane. The gate then
closes. The gate is one-way only and can't be reopened.
BAG OF TRICKS
Wondrous item, uncommon
This ordinary bag, made from gray, rust, or tan cloth,
appears empty. Reaching inside the bag, however,
reveals the presence of a small, fuzzy object. The bag
weighs 1/2 pound.
You can use an action to pull the fuzzy object from the
bag and throw it up to 20 feet. When the object lands,
it transforms into a creature you determine by rolling
a d8 and consulting the table that corresponds to the
bag's color. See the Monster Manual for the creature's
statistics.
The creature is friendly to you and your companions,
and it acts on your turn. You can use a bonus action to
command how the creature moves and what action it
takes on its next turn, or to give it general orders, such
as to attack your enemies. In the absence of such orders,
the creature acts in a fashion appropriate to its nature.
Once three fuzzy objects have been pulled from the
bag, the bag can't be used again until the next dawn.
BEAD OF FORCE
Wondrous item, rare
This small black sphere measures 3/4 of an inch in
diameter and weighs an ounce. Typically, 1d4 + 4 beads
of force are found together.
You can use an action to throw the bead up to 60
feet. The bead explodes on impact and is destroyed.
Each creature within a 10-foot radius of where the bead
landed must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw
or take 5d4 force damage. A sphere of transparent
force then encloses the area for 1 minute. Any creature
that failed the save and is completely within the area is
trapped inside this sphere. Creatures that succeeded
on the save, or are partially within the area, are pushed
away from the center of the sphere until they are no
longer inside it. Only breathable air can pass through
the sphere's wall. No attack or other effect can.
An enclosed creature can use its action to push
against the sphere's wall, moving the sphere up to half
the creature's walking speed. The sphere can be picked
up, and its magic causes it to weigh only 1 pound,
regardless of the weight of creatures inside.
BELT OF DWARVENKIND
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
While wearing this belt, you gain the following benefits:
Your Constitution score increases by 2, to a
maximum of 20.
You have advantage on Charisma (Persuasion) checks
made to interact with dwarves.
In addition, while attuned to the belt, you have a 50
percent chance each day at dawn of growing a full beard
if you're capable of growing one, or a visibly thicker
beard if you already have one.
If you aren't a dwarf, you gain the following additional
benefits while wearing the belt:
You have advantage on saving throws against poison,
and you have resistance against poison damage.
You have darkvision out to a range of 60 feet.
You can speak, read, and write Dwarvish.
BELT OF GIANT STRENGTH
Wondrous item, rarity varies (requires attunement)
While wearing this belt, your Strength score changes to
a score granted by the belt. If your Strength is already
equal to or greater than the belt's score, the item has no
effect on you.
Six varieties of this belt exist, corresponding with and
having rarity according to the six kinds of true giants.
The belt of stone giant strength and the belt of frost giant
strength look different, but they have the same effect.
BERSERKER AxE
Weapon (any axe), rare (requires attunement)
You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made
with this magic weapon. In addition, while you are
attuned to this weapon, your hit point maximum
increases by 1 for each level you have attained.
Curse. This axe is cursed, and becoming attuned to it
extends the curse to you. As long as you remain cursed,
you are unwilling to part with the axe, keeping it within
reach at all times. You also have disadvantage on attack
rolls with weapons other than this one, unless no foe is
within 60 feet of you that you can see or hear.
Whenever a hostile creature damages you while the
axe is in your possession, you must succeed on a DC 15
Wisdom saving throw or go berserk. While berserk, you
must use your action each round to attack the creature
nearest to you with the axe. If you can make extra
attacks as part of the Attack action, you use those extra
attacks, moving to attack the next nearest creature after
you fell your current target. If you have multiple possible
targets, you attack one at random. You are berserk until
you start your turn with no creatures within 60 feet of
you that you can see or hear.
BOOTS OF ELVENKIND
Wondrous item, uncommon
While you wear these boots, your steps make no sound,
regardless of the surface you are moving across. You
also have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks that
rely on moving silently.
BOOTS OF LEVITATION
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
While you wear these boots, you can use an action to
cast the levitate spell on yourself at will.
BOOTS OF SPEED
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
While you wear these boots, you can use a bonus action
and click the boots' heels together. If you do, the boots
double your walking speed, and any creature that makes
an opportunity attack against you has disadvantage on
the attack roll. If you click your heels together again, you
end the effect.
When the boots' property has been used for a total of
10 minutes, the magic ceases to function until you finish
a long rest.
BOOTS OF STRIDING AND SPRINGING
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
While you wear these boots, your walking speed
becomes 30 feet, unless your walking speed is higher,
and your speed isn't reduced if you are encumbered
or wearing heavy armor. In addition, you can jump
three times the normal distance, though you can't jump
farther than your remaining movement would allow.
BOOTS OF THE WINTERLANDS
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
These furred boots are snug and feel quite warm. While
you wear them, you gain the following benefits:
• You have resistance to cold damage.
• You ignore difficult terrain created by ice or snow.
You can tolerate temperatures as low as -50 degrees
Fahrenheit without any additional protection. If you
wear heavy clothes, you can tolerate temperatures as
low as -100 degrees Fahrenheit.
BOWL OF COMMANDING WATER ELEMENTALS
Wondrous item, rare
While this bowl is filled with water, you can use an
action to speak the bowl's command word and summon
a water elemental, as if you had cast the conjure
elemental spell. The bowl can't be used this way again
until the next dawn.
The bowl is about 1 foot in diameter and half as deep.
It weighs 3 pounds and holds about 3 gallons.
BRACERS OF ARCHERY
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
While wearing these bracers, you have proficiency
with the longbow and shortbow, and you gain a +2
bonus to damage rolls on ranged attacks made with
such weapons.
BRACERS OF DEFENSE
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
While wearing these bracers, you gain a +2 bonus to AC
if you are wearing no armor and using no shield.
BRAZIER OF COMMANDING FIRE ELEMENTALS
Wondrous item, rare
While a fire burns in this brass brazier, you can use
an action to speak the brazier's command word and
summon a fire elemental, as if you had cast the conjure
elemental spell. The brazier can't be used this way again
until the next dawn.
The brazier weighs 5 pounds.
BROOCH OF SHIELDING
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
While wearing this brooch, you have resistance to force
damage, and you have immunity to damage from the
magic missile spell.
BROOM OF FLYING
Wondrous item, uncommon
This wooden broom, which weighs 3 pounds, functions
like a mundane broom until you stand astride it and
speak its command word. It then hovers beneath you
and can be ridden in the air. It has a flying speed of 50
feet. It can carry up to 400 pounds, but its flying speed
becomes 30 feet while carrying over 200 pounds. The
broom stops hovering when you land.
You can send the broom to travel alone to a
destination within 1 mile of you if you speak the
command word, name the location, and are familiar
with that place. The broom comes back to you when you
speak another command word, provided that the broom
is still within 1 mile of you.
CANDLE OF INVOCATION
Wondrous item, very rare (requires attunement)
This slender taper is dedicated to a deity and shares
that deity's alignment. The candle's alignment can
be detected with the detect evil and good spell. The
DM chooses the god and associated alignment or
determines the alignment randomly.
The candle's magic is activated when the candle is lit,
which requires an action. After burning for 4 hours, the
candle is destroyed. You can snuff it out early for use at
a later time. Deduct the time it burned in increments of
1 minute from the candle's total burn time.
While lit, the candle sheds dim light in a 30-foot
radius. Any creature within that light whose alignment
matches that of the candle makes attack rolls, saving
throws, and ability checks with advantage. In addition, a
cleric or druid in the light whose a lignment matches the
candle's can cast 1st-level spells he or she has prepared
without expending spell slots, though the spell's effect is
as if cast with a 1st-level slot.
Alternatively, when you light the candle for the first
time, you can cast the gate spell with it. Doing so
destroys the candle.
CAP OF WATER BREATHING
Wondrous item, uncommon
While wearing this cap underwater, you can speak its
command word as an action to create a bubble of air
around your head. It allows you to breathe normally
underwater. This bubble stays with you until you speak
the command word again, the cap is removed, or you are
no longer underwater.
CAPE OF THE MOUNTEBANK
Wondrous item, rare
This cape smells faintly of brimstone. While wearing
it, you can use it to cast the dimension door spell as an
action. This property of the cape can't be used again
until the next dawn.
When you disappear, you leave behind a cloud of
smoke, and you appear in a similar cloud of smoke at
your destination. The smoke lightly obscures the space
you left and the space you appear in, and it dissipates
at the end of your next turn. A light or stronger wind
disperses the smoke.
CARPET OF FLYING
Wondrous item, very rare
You can speak the carpet's command word as an action
to make the carpet hover and fly. It moves according to
your spoken directions, provided that you are within 30
feet of it.
Four sizes of carpet of flying exist. The DM chooses
the size of a given carpet or determines it randomly.
A carpet can carry up to twice the weight shown on
the table, but it flies at half speed if it carries more than
its normal capacity.
CENSER OF CONTROLLING AIR ELEMENTALS
Wondrous item, rare
While incense is burning in this censer, you can use
an action to speak the censer's command word and
summon an air elemental, as if you had cast the conjure
elemental spell. The censer can't be used this way again
until the next dawn.
This 6-inch-wide, 1-foot-high vessel resembles a
chalice with a decorated lid. It weighs 1 pound.
CHIME OF OPENING
Wondrous item, rare
This hollow metal tube measures about 1 foot long and
:-veighs 1 pound. You can strike it as an action, pointing
1t at an object within 120 feet of you that can be opened,
such as a door, lid, or lock. The chime issues a clear
tone, and one lock or latch on the object opens unless
the sound can't reach the object. If no locks or latches
remain, the object itself opens.
The chime can be used ten times. After the tenth time
it cracks and becomes useless. '
CIRCLET OF BLASTING
Wondrous item, uncommon
While wearing this circlet, you can use an action to
cast the scorching ray spell with it. When you make the
spell's attacks, you do so with an attack bonus of +5'. The
circlet can't be used this way again until the next dawn.
CLOAK OF ARACHNIDA
Wondrous item, very rare (requires attunement)
This fine garment is made of black silk interwoven with
faint silvery threads. While wearing it, you gain the
following benefits:
You have resistance to poison damage.
You have a climbing speed equal to your
walking speed.
You can move up, down, and across vertical surfaces
and upside down along ceilings, while leaving your
hands free.
• You can't be caught in webs of any sort and can move
through webs as if they were difficult terrain.
• You can use an action to cast the web spell (save DC
13). The web created by the spell fills twice its normal
area. Once used, this property of the cloak can't be
used again until the next dawn.
CLOAK OF DISPLACEMENT
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
While you wear this cloak, it projects an illusion that
makes you appear to be standing in a place near
your actual location, causing any creature to have
disadvantage on attack rolls against you. If you take
damage, the property ceases to function until the
start of your next turn. This property is suppressed
while you are in-capacitated, restrained, or otherwise
unable to move.
CLOAK OF ELVENKIND
Wondrous item, uncommon (requires attunement)
While you wear this cloak with its hood up, Wisdom
(Perception) checks made to see you have disadvantage.
and you have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks
made to hide, as the cloak's color shifts to camouflage
you. Pulling the hood up or down requires an action.
CLOAK OF INVISIBILITY
Wondrous item, legendary (requires attunement)
While wearing this cloak, you can pull its hood over
your head to cause yourself to become invisible. While
you are invisible, anything you are carrying or wearing
is invisible with you. You become visible when you cease
wearing the hood. Pulling the hood up or down requires
an action.
Deduct the time you are invisible, in increments of 1
minute, from the cloak's maximum duration of 2 hours.
After 2 hours of use, the cloak ceases to function. For
every uninterrupted period of 12 hours the cloak goes
unused, it regains 1 hour of duration.